When we talk about Cloud versus on-premises,
we're talking about the cloud as servers and resources
that are accessed over the Internet and on-premises as
hardware located onsite or in a data center running on hardware
that is owned or leased by and dedicated to one company.
Cloud computing is generally categorized into four models.
Private Cloud is compute resources deployed from one company organization,
and that organization conducts mostly intra-business interactions and transactions.
So it makes sense for them to own, operate,
and govern their own Cloud computing resources.
Community Cloud is cloud resources that are
provided for organizations and community groups,
such as municipal groups, nonprofits, and schools.
Hybrid Cloud combines public Cloud, private Cloud,
and Cloud on-premises to allow data and resources to be shared between them.
Public Cloud is the cloud model generally used for business to consumer interactions.
Public Clouds are owned by the government,
academic institutions or business.
Amazon.com Incorporated is the business that owns the public cloud, Amazon Web Services.
Other examples of public Cloud providers are Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform.
Many large customers would like to take
advantage of the managed services the Cloud provides,
but regulations require them to maintain data onsite.
AWS now has a unique hardware offering to meet their needs,
while providing all the advantages of public Cloud.
Amazon recently announced a physical device called Amazon Outposts.
Amazon Outposts resides on-premises in the data center as
AWS branded hardware comprised of fully managed compute and storage.
This allows customers to run AWS compute and storage
on-premises and connect securely to the rest of Amazon's Cloud.
Now, this goes against what most of us know to be true of the Cloud.
That is, that it is massive data centers of compute and storage,
running AWS services in a shared public model.
What this shows is that AWS is able to be
flexible and innovate according to the requirements of the customers they serve.
As a Cloud architect,
you will be required to select the best Cloud model for your business needs.
For this course, we will touch on hybrid architecture briefly,
but a majority of our focus will be on public Cloud.